Almis Web Engine > **[Basic Development Guide](basic-developer-guide.md)**

---

# **Screen development**

## Table of Contents

* **[Introduction](#introduction)**
* **[Templates](#templates)**
* **[Screen](screen.md)**
* **[Layout](layout.md)**
* **[Tags](tags.md)**
* **[Window](window.md)**
* **[Resizable](resizable.md)**
* **[Button](button.md)**
* **[Criteria](criteria.md)**
* **[Tab and tabcontainer](tab-and-tabcontainer.md)**
* **[Wizard and Wizard panel](wizard-and-wizard-panel.md)**
* **[Accordion](accordion.md)**
* **[Grids](grids.md)**
* **[Pivot table](pivot-table.md)**
* **[Context menu](context-menu.md)**
* **[Messages](messages.md)**
* **[Navigation bar](info.md)**
* **[Include](include.md)**
* **[Dialog](dialog.md)**
* **[Charts](chart-development.md)**
* **[Validation](validation-4.0.md)**
* **[Actions](actions.md)**
* **[Dependencies](dependencies.md)**

---

## Introduction

In AWE, screens are generated by an *XML descriptor* and a *JSP template*. HTML final pages are generated automatically based in those 2 files.
To change a screen it's only necessary to update the *XML descriptor* of the screen, the *JSP template* doesn't need to be modified.

> **Note:** All screen XML descriptors are defined at **screen folder**. View [project structure](basic-developer-guide.md#project-structure) for more info.

## Templates

A template is a JSP file which contains a link between the AWE engine and the *XML descriptor*. Those links are called **source points**. Each JSP template has *one or more source points*. These *source points* are the places where our generated code in the *XML descriptor* will be located once each page is generated.

To set the contain of a tag into a source, just fill the source attribute of the tag with the name of the source (i.e. `<tag source="center">`).

Currently AWE has 2 standard templates defined with their sources:
* **full**: For full screen windows. Contains the following sources:
  * *center:* Window center container. Place to define the screen structure.
  * *hidden:* Hidden container for hidden criteria and messages.
* **window**: Template for inner application windows inside a full template view. It has the next sources:
  * *buttons:* Source to place buttons in the upper right zone of the screen.
  * *center:* Window center container. Place to define the screen structure.
  * *modal:* Source to place *includes* with modal windows.
  * *hidden:* Hidden container for hidden criteria and messages.

